Clarify template documentfragment pitfalls (#28436)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/html/element/template/index.md

{{EmbedLiveSample("Examples", 500, 120)}}

## Avoiding DocumentFragment Pitfalls

> When passed a {{domxref("DocumentFragment")}} value, {{domxref("Node.appendChild")}} and similar methods will move only the *child nodes* of that value into the target node. Thus, it is usually preferable to attach event handlers to a DocumentFragment's children, rather than to the DocumentFragment itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a {{domxref("DocumentFragment")}} value is passed, {{domxref("Node.appendChild")}} and similar methods move only the _child nodes_ of that value into the target node. Therefore, it is usually preferable to attach event handlers to the children of a `DocumentFragment`, rather than to the `DocumentFragment` itself.
```

> When passed a {{domxref("DocumentFragment")}} value, {{domxref("Node.appendChild")}} and similar methods will move only the _child nodes_ of that value into the target node. Thus, it is usually preferable to attach event handlers to a DocumentFragment's children, rather than to the DocumentFragment itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a {{domxref("DocumentFragment")}} value is passed, {{domxref("Node.appendChild")}} and similar methods move only the _child nodes_ of that value into the target node. Therefore, it is usually preferable to attach event handlers to the children of a `DocumentFragment`, rather than to the `DocumentFragment` itself.
```

firstClone.addEventListener("click", clickHandler);
container.appendChild(firstClone);

const secondClone = template.content.cloneNode(true);
secondClone.children[0].addEventListener("click", clickHandler);
container.appendChild(secondClone);
```

### Result

> Since `firstClone` is a DocumentFragment, only its children are added to `container` when `appendChild` is called; `firstClone`'s event handlers are not copied. In contrast, because an event handler is added to `secondClone`'s first *child* node, the event handler is copied when `appendChild` is called, and clicking on it works as one would expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `firstClone` is a `DocumentFragment`, only its children are added to `container` when `appendChild` is called; the event handlers of `firstClone` are not copied. In contrast, because an event handler is added to the first _child node_ of `secondClone`, the event handler is copied when `appendChild` is called, and clicking on it works as one would expect.
```

> Since `firstClone` is a DocumentFragment, only its children are added to `container` when `appendChild` is called; `firstClone`'s event handlers are not copied. In contrast, because an event handler is added to `secondClone`'s first _child_ node, the event handler is copied when `appendChild` is called, and clicking on it works as one would expect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `firstClone` is a `DocumentFragment`, only its children are added to `container` when `appendChild` is called; the event handlers of `firstClone` are not copied. In contrast, because an event handler is added to the first _child node_ of `secondClone`, the event handler is copied when `appendChild` is called, and clicking on it works as one would expect.
```
